---
layout: post
title: "Books I Read In 2021"
date: 2022-01-05 00:00
categories:
  - Books
---

Boy, it's hard to believe 2021 is already over. At least there was some good reading to be had.

<!-- more -->

2021 Books

- _Jesus Through Middle Eastern Eyes_, Kenneth Bailey

  I borrowed this one, but bought a copy after finishing it. Bailey investigates many of aspects of the narratives of Jesus's life, shedding new light based on traditional Middle Eastern context. Often, these illuminated the story in a totally new way. As a short teaser, consider what Luke had to say about the shepherds who visited newly-born Jesus and his family: "They left, glorifying and praising God for everything they had seen." How can that be reconciled with our depiction of Jesus's birth scene as pitiful and lamentable? (Spoiler alert: it can't be, and Bailey addresses it right at the beginning of the book.)

- _Small Farmer's Journal, Volume 44, Number 1_
- _Small Farmer's Journal, Volume 44, Number 2_
- _Small Farmer's Journal, Volume 41, Number 3_

  I got these on loan from a friend. They strike me as the paper version of sitting on the front porch with an old-timer, asking how the summer has been. A lovely, slow stroll through farm life, new and old.

- _Farm Mechanics: Farm Machinery and Its Use_, Herbert Shearer

  After reading this, I became the proud owner of several force-multiplying hand tools: a power pull, a farm jack, and a post puller, all of which have paid for themselves because of what I _didn't_ have to hire someone to do with heavy machinery!

- _Lilith_, George MacDonald

  Trippy, excellent.

- _The Art of Natural Cheesemaking_, David Asher

  An interesting take, but in the end, I don't plan to adopt it. I failed at kefir mozzarella too many times :'(.

- _Power Failure: Christianity in the Culture of Technology_, Albert Borgmann

  More classic Borgmann: heady, but compelling.

- _Radical Brewing_, Randy Mosher

  A good introduction to brewing, really set the stage for _Historical Brewing Techniques_.

- _The Patient Ferment of the Early Church_, Alan Kreider

  Eye-opening: how were Christian communities and institutions different in the 300 years before Constantine merged it with the Roman empire? Very different, turns out.

- _The Violence of Love_, Plough Quarterly #27 Spring 2021
- _Shadow of the Torturer_, Gene Wolfe
- _Claw of the Conciliator_, Gene Wolfe

  The first two books in the Book of the New Sun series. Recommended by a friend -- really a mind-bender! Anyhow, after finishing the series below, I plan to read the coda, "Urth of the New Sun", too.

- _Creatures_, Plough Quarterly #28 Summer 2021
- _A Timber Framer's Workshop_, Steve Chappell
- _Moving Heavy Things_, Jan Adkins
- _Home Economics_, Wendell Berry
- _Historical Brewing Techniques: The Lost Art of Farmhouse Brewing_, Lars Marius Garshol

  Maybe the best read of the year. A brewing book that made me laugh, do mental math, and cry, all in the same chapter.

- _Sword of the Lictor_, Gene Wolfe
- _Water at the Roots_, Philip Britts, ed Jennifer Harries
- _Beyond Borders_, Plough Quarterly #29 Fall 2021
- _Citadel of the Autarch_, Gene Wolfe
- _Peace Like a River_, Leif Enger

  Too good! So much to enjoy and take home from the compelling characters in this book.

- _Keeping a Family Cow_, Joann S. Grohmann
- _The Farmstead Culture Guide To Fermenting_, Kathryn Lukas and Shane Peterson
